feat: add blog article for v3.13 (#1645)
nuxt/nuxt.com: content/7.blog/27.v3-13.md

---
title: Nuxt 3.13
description: Nuxt 3.13 is out - full of improvements and preparing the way for Nuxt 4!
navigation: false
image: /assets/blog/v3.13.png
authors:
  - name: Daniel Roe
    avatarUrl: https://github.com/danielroe.png
    link: https://twitter.com/danielcroe
    twitter: danielcroe
date: 2024-08-22T10:00:00.000Z
category: Release
---

## 🏘️ Route groups

> We now support naming directories with parentheses/brackets in order to organise your routes without an effect on the path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now support naming directories with parentheses/brackets to organise your routes without affecting the path.
```

For example:

```bash [Directory structure]
-| pages/
---| index.vue
---| (marketing)/
-----| about.vue
-----| contact.vue
```

This will produce `/`, `/about` and `/contact` pages in your app. The `marketing` group is ignored for purposes of your URL structure.

Read more in [the original PR](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/28276).

## 🏝️ Islands and head metadata

It's now possible for server component islands to manipulate the head, such as by adding SEO metadata when rendering.

Read more in [#27987](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/27987).

## 🪝 Custom prefetch triggers

We now support custom prefetch triggers for `NuxtLink` ([#27846](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/27846)).

For example:

```vue [pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <NuxtLink prefetch-on="interaction">
      This will prefetch when hovered or when it gains focus
    </NuxtLink>
    <!-- note that you probably don't want both enabled! -->
    <NuxtLink :prefetch-on="{ visibility: true, interaction: true }">
      This will prefetch when hovered/focus - or when it becomes visible
    </NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

> It's also possible to enable/disable these globally for your app, and override on a per-link basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to enable/disable these globally for your app and override them per-link.
```

For example:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  experimental: {
    defaults: {
      nuxtLink: {
        prefetch: true,

>         prefetchOn: { visibility: false, interaction: true },
>       },
>     },
>   },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        prefetchOn: { visibility: false, interaction: true }
      }
    }
  }
```

})
```

> ## 🗺️  Better server sourcemaps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🗺️  Better server source maps
```

When running with `node --enable-source-maps`, you may have noticed that the source maps for the Vue files in your server build pointed to the Vite build output (something like `.nuxt/dist/server/_nuxt/index-O15BBwZ3.js`).

> Now, even after your Nitro build, your server sourcemaps will reference your original source files ([#28521](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/28521)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, even after your Nitro build, your server source maps will reference your original source files ([#28521](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/28521)).
```

> Note that one of the easiest ways of improving your build performance is to turn off sourcemaps if you aren't using them, which you can do easily in your `nuxt.config`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that one of the easiest ways of improving your build performance is to turn off source maps if you aren't using them, which you can do easily in your `nuxt.config`:
```

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sourcemap: {
    server: false,
    client: true,
  },
})
```

## 🎁 New features for module authors

In the run-up to Nuxt v4, we're working on adding some key functionality for module authors, including a new `isNuxtMajorVersion` utility where required ([#27579](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/27579)) and better inferred typing for merged module options using the new `defineNuxtModule().with()` method ([#27520](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/27520)).

## ✨ Improved dev warnings

We no longer warn when using data fetching composables in middleware ([#28604](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/28604)) and we warn when user components' names begin with Lazy ([#27838](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/pull/27838)).

## 🚨 Vue TypeScript changes

> For a while, in the Vue ecosystem we've been augmenting `@vue/runtime-core` to add custom properties and more to `vue`. However, this inadvertently breaks the types for projects that augment `vue` - which is now the officially recommended in the docs way to augment these interfaces (for example, [ComponentCustomProperties](https://vuejs.org/api/utility-types.html#componentcustomproperties), [GlobalComponents](https://vuejs.org/guide/extras/web-components.html#web-components-and-typescript) and [so on](https://vuejs.org/guide/typescript/options-api.html#augmenting-global-properties)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a while, in the Vue ecosystem, we've been augmenting `@vue/runtime-core` to add custom properties and more to `vue`. However, this inadvertently breaks the types for projects that augment `vue` - which is now the officially recommended in the docs way to augment these interfaces (for example, [ComponentCustomProperties](https://vuejs.org/api/utility-types.html#componentcustomproperties), [GlobalComponents](https://vuejs.org/guide/extras/web-components.html#web-components-and-typescript) and [so on](https://vuejs.org/guide/typescript/options-api.html#augmenting-global-properties)).
```

> This means _all_ libraries must update their code (or it will break the types of the libraries that augment `vue` instead).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means _all_ libraries must update their code (or it will break the types of libraries that augment `vue` instead).
```
